DHS e2e example changes (#1585)
marklogic/marklogic-data-hub: examples/DHS-e2e/README.md

> # Running Data Hub Service end-end #

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Running Data Hub Service end-to-end #
```

> There are 2 projects one for each DHS and DSF. DHS is the project to run DHF flows in the stack spun up by DHS. Whereas DSF is the project that consumes curated data in the FINAL database. Commands to be executed in sequence are as under:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two projects — one for running DHF flows in Data Hub Service (DHS), and one for consuming data from the final database with Data Services (DSF). 
```

> ## Pre-req ##

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites ##
```

> Gradle 4.x+ installed globally.

Reviewer 2: I don't think that you should use a global gradle install step.  gradlew is much safer to use and less invasive.  I actually have never installed gradle on my laptop.

> Gradle 4.x+ installed globally.

Author: OK. I added it because I was running into issues with gradle version, since DHF expect 3.4+ and DSF expected 3.8+ I think. So I installed a 4.x+ and just used that and thought it will be easier. I can include the wrapper within these projects so folks trying this out there dont have to install gradle.

> * wget https://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-4.2.1-bin.zip

Reviewer 2: wget is a common utility to get things from the web, alternate to curl

* unzip to a dir of choice

> * update env var PATH in bash_profile

Reviewer 2: I appreciate that you documented everything so well, but this is specific to bash, and .bash_profile is specific so some operating systems.  not important of course.

  * `export PATH=$PATH:<unzipped dir>/gradle4.2.1/bin`

>   * source ~/.bash_profile

Author: Yes its a command to run so the changes in .bash_profile can take effect.

There is a gradle task “importAllCustomers” to ingest source documents. So you can either run that task or use your locally installed mlcp.sh as described later.
* Download and Extract mlcp-9.0.7.zip to a directory of your choice
  * `export PATH=$PATH:<unzipped dir>/mlcp-9.0.7/bin`
  * source ~/.bash_profile

After creating stack in AWS make sure you have created users with appropriate roles. Update DHS/gradle.properties and DSF/gradle.properties to use them.

* For DHS project

>   * User with flowDeveloper role can create, load into modules DB and run flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Users with the flowDeveloper role can load flows into the modules database and run them
```

>   * User with flowOperator role can only run flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Users with the flowOperator role can only run flows
```

* For DSF project

>   * User with endpointDeveloper role can load into modules DB and call the DSF API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Users with endpointDeveloper role can load data into the modules database and call the DSF API
```

>   * User with endpointUser role can only call the DSF API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Users with the endpointUser role can only call the DSF API
```

## Assumptions and things to note ##

> * This project assumes that DHS environment is already provisioned. All the app servers, databases are provisioned and required roles created as described in pre-req above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This project assumes that DHS environment is already provisioned. All the app servers and databases should be provisioned and required roles created as described in prerequisites above
```

* This example was executed from bastion host

> * DHS enables you to configure the endpoints to be private or public. If they are public, you can run this project from your laptop. If the endpoints are private, then these hosts are only accessible from the VPC that is peered to the MarkLogic VPC (This can be accessed from your local by ssh tunneling). In either case please update mlHost in DHS/gradle.properties and DSF/gradle.properties to use Flows endpoint.

Reviewer: Is ssh tunneling in addition to using a bastion host?

Author: Not an addition but an alternate to bastion host, so you can run things from your laptop.

> # Steps to run end to end #

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Steps #
```

## Getting your flows in DHS ##
1. cd `<path to DHS>`
2. Install data-hub core MODULES

>     1. gradle hubInstallModules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Run gradle hubInstallModules
```

>     2. data-hub-MODULES should have 133 documents. You can verify this in your browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Verify that data-hub-MODULES has 133 documents from your browser:
```

        ___http://CURATION_ENDPOINT:8004/v1/search?database=data-hub-MODULES___
3. Load your modules for input/harmoninzation flows

>     1. gradle mlLoadModules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Run gradle mlLoadModules
```

Author: Its a command so didnt want to include it in a sentence. The sub bullet is the thing to run to get the thing described in main bullet done.

>     2. data-hub-MODULES should now have 145 documents. You can verify this in your browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Verify that data-hub-MODULES has 145 documents from your browser:
```

        ___http://CURATION_ENDPOINT:8004/v1/search?database=data-hub-MODULES___

> 4. Run input flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the input flow
```

    1. mlcp.sh import -mode "local" -host "`Ingest/Flows endpoint`" -port "8006" -username "xx" -password "yy" -input_file_path "`path to DHS/input/json/customers/`" -input_file_type "documents" -output_collections "Customer,DHS" -output_permissions "rest-reader,read,rest-writer,update" -output_uri_replace "`path to DHS/input/json`,''" -document_type "json" -transform_module "/data-hub/4/transforms/mlcp-flow-transform.sjs" -transform_namespace "http://marklogic.com/data-hub/mlcp-flow-transform" -transform_param "entity-name=Customer,flow-name=customerInput" -restrict_hosts true
  

>         ___Alternately you can run___

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ___Alternatively you can run___
```

>     2. gradle importAllCustomers

Reviewer: This shouldn't be #2 if it's not a sequential step...you can try adding a bullet underneath 1. instead

>         1. Ensure to update path to input documents in DHS/build.gradle where the task is defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure to update the path to the input documents in DHS/build.gradle, where the task is defined
```

>     3. Post ingestion, there should be 11 documents in data-hub-STAGING:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Post ingestion, verify there are 11 documents in data-hub-STAGING:
```

        ___http://CURATION_ENDPOINT:8004/v1/search?database=data-hub-STAGING___

> 5. Run harmonization flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run the harmonization flow
```

>     1. gradle hubRunFlow -PentityName=Customer -PflowName=customerHarmonize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Run gradle hubRunFlow -PentityName=Customer -PflowName=customerHarmonize
```

>     2. Post harmonization, there should be 11 documents in data-hub-FINAL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Verify there are 11 documents in data-hub-FINAL:
```

        ___http://CURATION_ENDPOINT:8004/v1/search?database=data-hub-FINAL___

> ## Consuming curated data from FINAL database ##

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Consuming curated data from the final database ##
```

> 1. cd `<path to DSF>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the DSF directory (cd `<path to DSF>`)
```

> 2. Load your APIs into data-hub-MODULES database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Load your APIs into the data-hub-MODULES database
```

>     1. gradle mlLoadModules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Run gradle mlLoadModules
```

>         1. If you are using same project to run against another AWS stack, delete `module-timestamps.properties` under `build/ml-javaclient-util` dir

Reviewer: Should they do this after or before running gradle mlLoadModules?

>         2. data-hub-MODULES should now have 152 documents. You can verify this in your browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        2. Verify that data-hub-MODULES should has 152 documents from your browser:
```

            ___http://CURATION_ENDPOINT:8004/v1/search?database=data-hub-MODULES___
3. Call the API. The API runs a query on FINAL database to return all the Customers who have "Sales" in their title

>     1. gradle runMain

Reviewer: Is there a way to indent without adding a bullet point or number in front of 'gradle runMain'?
